{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 E-commerce brands are continually finding new ways to encourage people to interact with their website. Having a well-designed, quick, and functional website is a must, but it\rquote s still not enough.\par
One of the best ways to increase conversions is to intrigue and entertain visitors with interactive website features that will keep them hooked. When used properly, interactive elements like live chat, surveys, personalized product suggestions (and more) will grab your visitors\rquote  attention. And when people are more engaged with your website, it eventually leads to greater interest in your products.\par
Some of the most common interactive features for improving the customer experience and, ultimately, sales.\par
\par
1. Surveys, quizzes, and forms\par
Including quizzes and surveys on web pages can be a beneficial part of an online retailer\rquote s digital marketing plan. Depending on the questions you ask, you can find out a lot about your site visitors, as well as their attitude towards your website, your brand, or your products.\par
\par
You can use this knowledge to better segment your audience and even provide personalized experiences for every single visitor. This is hugely important since as much as 80% of consumers are more likely to purchase from brands that offer personalized experiences.\par
\par
However, getting your visitors to fill these forms in may not be that easy. So keep these quizzes short and user-friendly. And make sure you explain to the users what\rquote s in it for them. \par
\par
Using a great survey tool like Survey Anyplace can make this much easier. And if you have MailerLite SitesPro, the surveys and quizzes are ready-installed. \par
\par
You can motivate your visitors by offering a discount, a personalized offer, or even just the chance to have fun\f1\emdash but you\rquote ll need to offer them something.\par
\par
Take Two Chimps Coffee, for example. They created a quick, amusing quiz on their homepage asking potential customers about their coffee-drinking habits and preferences. At the end of it, they\rquote ll recommend the best type of coffee for you based on your answers, and you can buy it right away or check more info about it if you\rquote re still not sure. A great and useful feature for all true coffee-lovers!\par
\par
interactive-website-features-01.jpg\par
2. Videos and interactive images\par
In the old days of the internet, there was much less visual content, simply because the smaller bandwidths and slower connections couldn\rquote t support it properly. Now that connection speeds have improved, we can take advantage of powerful visual and interactive content. \par
\par
Videos are a great way of grabbing your users\rquote  attention. In fact, 96% of people choose to turn to videos to learn more about a product or a service. It\rquote s a convenient way to promote what you\rquote re selling or to simply present how it works.\par
\par
If you\rquote re still not convinced that video format is truly taking over the internet, just keep in mind that the average user spends almost 7 hours a week watching videos, which is a 59% increase since 2016. In general, people prefer watching videos and viewing images, rather than spending time reading written content. You can use this fact to your advantage.\par
\par
Ultimate Meal Plans lies somewhere at the intersection of the food, health, and fitness industries, and they utilize images of different meal plans and recipes. Moreover, there\rquote s a 1-minute animated video presentation in which they briefly explain how their paleo meal plan works\emdash and that\rquote s a fantastic way to intrigue and engage their new users.\par
\par
food-video-website.gif\par
3. Review scrolls\par
When it comes to developing brand trust, there\rquote s nothing more effective than word-of-mouth. Consumers have an opportunity to share their opinion not only with their friends but with anyone who comes across your website, product page, or social accounts.\par
\par
Testimonials and review scrolls on your website can be highly valuable. Reviews address your product from a customer perspective, giving you outside credibility. And they can answer questions commonly asked by consumers. It\rquote s no wonder that 89% of users trust an online review as much as they would trust a personal recommendation.\par
\par
A big portion of websites today encourage these reviews and use different review scroll features. So it\rquote s not a bad idea to get creative and try something unique. If you\rquote re using a WordPress site, the Testimonial Rotator plugin is a great option. \par
\par
Reviews and testimonials are all about people\rquote s experiences with your brand, so you don\rquote t have to use a typical written review and a 5-star rating system. Take Glossier, for instance, where reviews are simply images of customers who used their products and decided to upload their photos after using them.\par
\par
interactive-website-features-02.jpg\par
This is a very useful type of review, as it\rquote s completely unbiased. The visitors ultimately decide whether they like the look of the product on other people. They can effortlessly continue scrolling until they find something they like and think \ldblquote that would look good on me.\rdblquote  \par
\par
4. Live chat\par
E-commerce businesses today are expected to be available at all times. More than 80% of consumers consider an immediate response from a brand important or very important.\par
\par
Of course, consumers can always contact you via social media, but if you\rquote re selling stuff on your website, you don\rquote t want to risk your visitors leaving it for just a second\emdash and then getting completely distracted as soon as they tap the Facebook icon!\par
\par
Having a live chat feature is a good way to keep your customers on your website. For example, automotive parts retailer Lift Kits 4 Less uses live chats to answer customer questions as quickly as possible. This is especially important for advanced and complex products, such as automotive parts. \par
\par
interactive-website-features-03.jpg\par
You should also think about implementing a chatbot that can answer the most basic questions while your customer service reps are busy. You can set this tool to automatically start conversations with visitors, utilizing suitable questions and offers. For consumers, this can be very helpful, while for businesses, it can open a world of upselling and cross-selling opportunities. A tool like Drift offers a free live chat feature. Their paid plans offer a chatbot that can automatically start conversations with prospects. \par
\par
5. Personalized product suggestions\par
We cannot overstate the importance of personalized experiences in e-commerce business. There\rquote s a number of different interactive website features that can contribute to your personalization efforts, but none can do it as efficiently as personalized product recommendations.\par
\par
Investing in a powerful product recommendation engine can increase your conversions by 150%, and giants like Amazon or Netflix generate a large portion of their revenue this way.\par
\par
Algorithms that lie at the heart of these engines will only become more powerful, and they already seem to occasionally know what we need better than ourselves. Plus, the amount of customer behavior information that is obtained in the process is immense.\par
\par
A great example of a creative approach to personalized suggestions is showcased by Banana Republic. As soon as you click on a product, the algorithm will suggest another clothing item that goes well with it. It\rquote s basically like getting fashion advice from software. We all know someone who needs this!\par
\par
interactive-website-features-04.jpg\par
6. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section\par
Attention spans are getting shorter. We want to know the answer straight away. Don\rquote t let your customers endlessly browse around your website looking for a simple piece of information. Instead, try adding an FAQ feature.\par
\par
You may use it on multiple pages, since your users could have various questions regarding different products, product lines, services, or plans. Try including an FAQ section on every page where customers might need quick and concise information. A free tool like BirdSeed\rquote s FAQ generator can help with this.\par
\par
There are two additional benefits from an FAQ feature. Firstly, it will make your customer support reps\rquote  lives easier. Secondly, it will help your Search Engine Optimization (SEO). When someone asks Google a question that your FAQ section has covered, your answer might just squeeze into Google\rquote s featured snippets.\par
\par
Take a look at how Zoma, a mattress manufacturer, implemented this feature. A number of different pages contain related FAQ sections since customers who are buying pillows and customers who are buying bed frames may have very different questions. If you ever notice that your clients are asking questions that aren\rquote t included in the FAQ, don\rquote t hesitate to update them.\par
\par
interactive-website-features-05.jpg\par
Right above their FAQ section, Zoma also has a Product specs section that shows off all the wonderful features of their product, as well as information on their delivery and fulfillment. Using a product features tool to show off what your product has to offer in a very user-friendly way can push interested prospective customers towards buying. Various tools exist depending on your platform, like the DoT Products app for Shopify and Product Specifications for Woocommerce.\par
\par
interactive-website-features-06.jpg\par
Final thoughts\par
Of course, this list is not exhaustive, as there are many other interactive website features you can use to increase engagement and conversions. These include wish lists, search boxes, social media integrations, various payment, and security features, and much more.\par
\par
Whichever of these interactive design options you choose, implement them in a way that will quickly grab visitors\rquote  attention and build an interest in your brand or your product. For many of these visitors, this will be your only chance to convert them into customers or at least propel them down the sales funnel, so make the most of it! \par
\par
\par
Travis Jamison\par
Travis Jamison has been involved with e-commerce for over a decade. As the Founding Director of Smash.VC, he is an investor and strategic growth partner in a number of bootstrapped e-commerce ventures.\par
\par
PRODUCT\par
Pricing\par
Features\par
Integrations\par
Developer API\par
What's new\par
Academy\par
Affiliate program\par
Compare MailerLite\par
Status\par
SUPPORT\par
Knowledge base\par
Video tutorials\par
MailerPro service\par
Request a demo\par
Migrate to MailerLite\par
Find an expert\par
Contact support\par
Report abuse\par
COMPANY\par
About us\par
Company values\par
Why Lite\par
Jobs\par
Write for us\par
Contact us\par
Agencies\par
Enterprises\par
Webinars\par
FOLLOW US\par
Facebook\par
YouTube\par
Twitter\par
Instagram\par
Linkedin\par
Stay up to date\par
Your email will be used to send you our new blog posts and updates. You can unsubscribe at any time using the link in our emails.\par
\par
Enter your email\par
Enter your email\par
Stay up to date\par
For more details, review our Privacy Policy.\par
\par
\par
GDPR Compliant\par
\par
2010 - 2021 \f0\'a9 MailerLite. All rights reserved.\par
Terms of Service Cookies Settings Brand Assets\par
We are part of\par
The Remote Company\par
\par
By clicking \ldblquote Accept All Cookies\rdblquote , you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.View our Cookie Policy.\par
Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies\par
}
 